[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi I'm Lisa Garr
host of Gaiam Inspiration.
My guest today Ron Teeguarden
is well known as the father
of the tonic herbal movement in
America, and has been teaching
about the ancient wisdom of
Chinese tonic herbs in America
since the early '70's,
and we're very lucky
to have Ron Teeguarden join us
today to share his knowledge
and give us a glimpse
into his vast travels.
Ron has traveled to some of
the most exotic locations
to find some of the highest
quality herbs in the world
for longevity and
radiant health.
Welcome to the show.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Oh it's great
to be here [laughter] thank you.
>> Lisa Garr: Great
to have you here.
So what started you on your path
to learn about Chinese herbs?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well at the
beginning it was my health.
I was in college and -- at
the University of Michigan
and I was burning the
candle at every end.
I was on an athletic scholarship
but also trying to be a doctor,
you know, pre-med and it was
the '60's so I was doing all
that kind of stuff and I just
burned myself out pretty badly
over a period of four
or five years of,
as I said burning the candle.
And so at some point I just
kind of -- my health collapsed.
I developed kind of a
chronic fatigue syndrome
and I was looking for things.
I got into organic food and
then herbs and eventually,
the tonic herbs came my
way by amazing good fortune
and I just developed
such an interest in it.
but they were hard to get so
I hard to start finding them,
and once I started finding
them and sharing them
with other people it just became
kind of a benevolent cycle
of taking care of my own
health and really over a couple
of years getting
really healthy from that
and at the same time I
started, you know, teaching it
and getting the herbs and giving
them to my friends and so forth.
>> Lisa Garr: Well you
definitely took a liking to it.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Now when
you say they came your way
by good fortune was it
a doctor or -- how...
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well
in the beginning I got
into macrobiotics which
was kind of Asian based
and so I met some
oriental doctors
and some acupuncturists
before acupuncture was legal
in America.
So I was introduced to some
herbs and then I just --
I start -- I had a knack
for finding teachers
who were sort of underground.
This was the early '70's
and they -- it was --
just I started going into
Korea town, and Japan town
and China town and
meeting people.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden: So I just
started getting into it.
It was an amazing thing
once you get going so.
>> Lisa Garr: So it went
so well in your body
that you decided to pursue it.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: You
went to China and...
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well
I didn't go to China yet.
At that point I was lucky
enough to have China come to me.
As I said there were
great masters living
around who were not practicing
in any kind of legal way so I...
>> Lisa Garr: Here
in Los Angeles?
>> Ron Teeguarden:
Yeah so I just would --
you know met one and then
another and it just kind
of became my passion and I
just started apprenticing
with a few different
people and...
>> Lisa Garr: Very smart.
So you found some mentors.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: We have a
picture of one of the mentors
that you started with.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Right.
>> Lisa Garr: Who
is this gentleman?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well my --
he became my greatest teacher.
That's Daoist Master
Sung Gin Park.
He was from Korea and he
came here for a short time
for a mission of training
some people to teach Daoism.
And I had seen a book by him a
couple years earlier and just
by complete coincidence he
came to town and I saw an ad
in the little throw away
newspaper for his class
and I went to it and only
one other person showed up
and he had us stand on our
-- when we walked in he said,
"Here stand on your
head against the wall."
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden: So we
both stood on our head
against the wall and
then he left [laughter].
And then after about 15
minutes the guy next to me said,
"Forget this," in a
little more graphic terms.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Got
down and walked out
and then Master Park
came into me --
back into the room and
said, "Okay, you're the one.
I'm going to," he
said, "I need you
to help me spread Daoism
throughout America and I'm going
to make you my apprentice."
And I just took a vow
that day and he turned
out to the most amazing teacher.
His whole teaching was
about being pro-active
about your health.
How to attain -- it was
the real deal like how
to attain immortality, and
longevity, and radiant health,
and choose spiritual happiness.
And he taught me all about
the basic of the herbs
and the system of
Chinese Daoist herbalism
so it was my amazing
fortune to study
with him for several years.
>> Lisa Garr: And
more than fortunate.
He was like, this
is your purpose.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yes, it
was just -- it was my mission.
It came to me.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It
still is exactly the same.
>> Lisa Garr: Well great.
>> Ron Teeguarden: I
still work with him.
>> Lisa Garr: You have
created incredible things.
So now your travels took
you all over the world
but started in the early-70's.
We have a picture of you in --
holding one of the
beautiful Ginseng herbs
that we're about to learn about.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah I'm
wearing my I made it to the top
of Chung Bine Mountain t-shirt
and [laughter] that was one
of the roots that I
collected at the --
up there on the top
of the mountain
and I started in the mid-80's.
China hadn't really
opened up yet
but you get certain
permission and I was able
to go a little bit in.
I started doing some trading
with China and met some people
and at that point that's
when all the bicycles
were on the road.
You know those images
of thousands,
of millions of bicycles
and everybody was still wearing
little [inaudible] outfits
and it was very primitive.
Like, I mean literally, I --
I'm sort of grateful in my life
that I got to see China
transform from that
into the whole thing
that it's gone through.
You know it's good
and bad but it --
I saw this transition
of a civilization
and it's pretty amazing.
But this was -- this
picture was taken back
when I brought home
a wild Ginseng root
and it was just [inaudible].
>> Lisa Garr: So when you travel
to those areas were you accepted
or allowed in to those
particular areas?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well in the
beginning it was very awkward.
I couldn't go anyplace
alone and I did --
I am the kind of person who
actually got away and got
to walk streets or countryside
on my own a little
bit, you know.
And but, you know, you --
at that time you would attract a
100 people every place you went
and nobody has every
seen a westerner before
so it was kind of
[laughter] crazy.
That doesn't happen
anymore unless you really go
to the remote mountains which,
you know, I've been going there
for that's -- you know, 20 year
or so, more than that 30 years.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah,
30 -- 35 years, yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: There you go.
>> Lisa Garr: Right yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: You
know, and, you know,
you see a lot and things change.
It's -- I've gone -- you
know, I've never actually gone
on a vacation in China.
You know, it took me a couple
of decades before I went
and saw the Great Wall because
there was no herbs there.
But I did get to go out --
my mission was always to
go where the herbs are
and people -- I'd meet people
who would take me to a mountain
or to a desert or
something and that was my...
>> Lisa Garr: What an adventure.
>> Ron Teeguarden: So I got
inside of people's houses,
their little huts
and into villages.
It was much more beautiful
than going on kind of tours.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
That type of thing.
>> Lisa Garr: This
photo we have is of you
in the Kings Mountains?
Is that what is was?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well this
one's actually up in Bhutan.
This is the Himalayas.
It's about 11,000 feet
up and I did get to --
I've been to Bhutan six times.
Bhutan's a Garden
of Eden paradise.
You know, it's a country
where they say there --
well there isn't
a stoplight yet.
There's not stop signs, no
stoplights in Bhutan and it's a,
it's a remarkably beautiful
and I've been fortunate enough
to spend a good time there.
And I have a very good friend
who's a [inaudible] medic
and he went -- he took me --
he had permission to go onto the
King's private land and we went
up to the King's private land
and there was just
Ginseng growing everywhere
and we picked a couple
of these Ginseng roots,
and this is Himalayan Ginseng.
I think this is one
of the roots,
you know, that he came with.
It's a little different
shape than...
>> Lisa Garr: That's a root?
>> Ron Teeguarden:
It's Himalayan Ginseng.
It's different than the
Chinese or the American Ginseng
but it was -- that's what I got
and you know pretty much ecstasy
when you find a Ginseng root in
the mountains and [inaudible].
>> Lisa Garr: You
know what to look for.
Now these are, these are
absolutely beautiful.
This is a giant Rishi mushroom.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah,
well just to give you a
little bit better view.
>> Lisa Garr: How old
is this particular?
>> Ron Teeguarden: This
mushroom is probably six
or seven years old and
I do have one or two,
a couple that are a
couple hundred years old
but they were a little
too big and heavy...
>> Lisa Garr: Rare.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...to
bring to the show here
but we have them on display
in our various locations.
But this one's magnificent.
It's been growing
for some years.
It shows that Reishi -- most
Reishi 's are one year old
when people collect them and
harvest them and consume them.
They grow -- people, some
people grow them in hot houses.
All of our Reishi's grow on
wooden logs up in the forest.
They actually put the logs and
they inoculate them naturally
like that and those will
grow for a season or two.
But Reishi will live as long
as the plant that's on it
so I have a Reishi in my
office that's probably
about 200-years-old
that was growing
on a tree called an
immortality tree.
A tree that lives well
over a 1,000 years long.
So once the Reishi embeds
it grows year, after year,
after year, so that's why
I have a 200-year-old...
>> Lisa Garr: My goodness.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It's
practically a priceless Reishi.
You know, I don't want to cook
it and eat it or consume it,
but maybe sometime when
I get really old and I'm
in desperate shape [laughter]
I probably will say now's
the time.
You know?
>> Lisa Garr: The time.
Is there any particular way
of telling what a higher grade
or more potent Reishi
mushroom is?
>> Ron Teeguarden:
There definitely is.
>> Lisa Garr: There is?
>> Ron Teeguarden: You sort
of have to have, you know,
the experience with it.
You know there's,
there's, there's a lot
of inexpensive hothouse
Reishi around that's not --
that's largely what you see and
it's not even really natural.
It's grown on rice holes
and things like that.
All of our Reishi as I
said is grown on a log
so they get pretty big,
and they're very colorful,
and they're thick, and they
produce spores at the end
of the season and those spores
are much more powerful even
than the Reishi.
And we can get the
oil from the --
I know that once David Wolfe was
on your show and he mentioned
that he takes the
Reishi spore oil...
>> Lisa Garr: Right, right.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...every
day, every morning and so do I.
It's a miraculous substance.
It's 700 times stronger
even than Reishi
which is probably the
strongest immune modulating herb
in the world and...
>> Lisa Garr: I was going
to ask you what are the
healing properties of a Reishi?
>> Ron Teeguarden: So
Reishi is the most --
it's really the ultimate
herb in the world.
I hope it -- every one of
my clients takes Reishi.
We figure out a way to get it
into your program
no matter what.
One way or another.
And I would take --
you can't go a day
without taking Reishi
once you know about it.
It's got 800 active
constituents all
of which build your
immune system,
strengthen your central nervous
system, strengthen your senses.
It's considered in Asia to be
the primary longevity herb.
You know, it's called the
mushroom of immortality,
because the concept
was you live so long.
Like this is...
>> Lisa Garr: Healthy.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
...this is a statue I got.
it's an old one, it's probably
about 100-years-old of --
he's called the Herb King and,
you know, he's a famous guy
who lives to be over a
100-years-old in rural history
and this particular
one, has him showing --
here's the Herb King holding
up a Reishi mushroom here.
>> Lisa Garr: Which is
very, very rare back then.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It's --
well Reishi's were harder
to find in the wild.
Now they know how to
cultivate them but --
[inaudible] my situation
we have --
we collect wild ones from
different places and...
>> Lisa Garr: Around the world.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...we
also cultivate them.
Yeah for example this one, these
little Reishi's right here,
these are the kind that grow
around the Shaolin Temple
and I'm very closely related
to the Shaolin Temple.
It's one of my favorite
places in the world.
That's where both Zen Buddhism
and Kung Fu were invented.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh wow.
>> Ron Teeguarden: 1,500
years ago and so there's lots
of Reishi around
the Shaolin Temple
and these little ones they're
prevalent at certain times
of the year and they're
fantastic.
>> Lisa Garr: They're small.
They're very, very different.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
They just small.
It's actually the same.
It's just...
>> Lisa Garr: They're the same?
>> Ron Teeguarden:
It just grows --
Reishi grows differently in
different environments and...
>> Lisa Garr: Oh I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...on
different sides of the mountain.
It's like -- sort of like people
and from different places.
We're just different
according to their history.
And this one over here,
this is a purple Reishi.
>> Lisa Garr: Wow.
>> Ron Teeguarden: This is the
most prized Reishi of them all.
It's called purple and it's --
that's the same kind he
would be holding in here.
The...
>> Lisa Garr: Oh okay, I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
...purple Reishi.
It's the king of the
Reishi mushrooms and very,
very hard -- this one's wild.
>> Lisa Garr: The kings Reishi.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
It's very hard to find
so this is something we can get.
We, we found it just a year ago
in a ravine in central China
and the, the person who
found them contacted us
because we're kind of
well-known and we extracted it
and now we can get
purple Reishi.
>> Lisa Garr: Now what is this
beautiful and quite heavy.
That is heavy.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah
this is -- well you can --
this is a Cistanche stem.
It's actually the
root and the stem.
>> Lisa Garr: It's
about five pounds.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It
actually goes like this.
No this is the root and
actually that's the stem.
Comes up above the
ground like that.
So you can see where
the cutoff line is here.
And this was actually
-- this is a big one.
This one cost me more
than a $1,000 for this.
Part of it broke off.
It was a little bit longer
but the -- this is --
it's from Mongolia and
where it's the most --
it's one of the most famous
what they Yong tonics.
It was kind of a
sexual tonic for men.
>> Lisa Garr: I get it yes.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Women
can take it too [laughter].
And this was the -- it's
very famous as the herb
that Genghis Khan consumed
every single day as his tonic.
You know, like some kings they
like Ginseng and
some like Reishi.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well
Genghis Khan took Cistanche.
This desert...
>> Lisa Garr: Very prolific man.
>> Ron Teeguarden: And he
was the most prolific man
in the history of the world.
He -- and he's still got
the largest gene pool
on the planet...
>> Lisa Garr: My goodness.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
...for one man.
So that just tells a story
without having to tell a story.
You know?
>> Lisa Garr: Exactly.
Exactly.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
And it's a prized herb
to say the least [laughter].
It's popular, they're popular.
>> Lisa Garr: Also Ginseng is a
very popular herb and it has --
it's very well-known but we
don't know enough about it
so you put together
a beautiful video
that tells us a little more.
Let's take a look at that.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Okay.
[ Music ]
>> [Background Music] Wild
Ginseng root, arguably one
of the most important,
greatest herbs in the world.
Ancient roots that can grow
to be hundreds of years old
that can empower one's
life when consumed.
[ Music ]
[Background Music] These
old roots when consumed
by humans build Chi,
increase Shen.
Their value is reflected
in their cost.
For example in this Hong Kong
herb shop where we can see
that a single root can
be extremely valuable.
[ Music ]
[Background Music] Heaven
Drops is composed of more
than a 1,000 wild Ginseng roots
extracted together using the
latest technology in the world.
Previously Ginseng was extracted
in alcohol or in water,
such as these examples.
These great old roots would have
provided an excellent tonic.
This is one of the roots used
in this current batch
of Heaven Drops.
As were these, these beautiful
Chinese Ginseng roots found
in the wild.
[ Music ]
[Background Music] Many
of the roots we use
in Heaven Drops are collected
by specialists in the mountains
of Chung Bi Mountain then
they're properly dried, mounted,
and then they're certified
by the Chinese government
to prove their authenticity
to make sure
that everybody understands
these are real Ginseng roots.
[ Music ]
[Background Music] As Ginseng
becomes old it becomes quite a
wild looking, gnarly
looking, root.
This is an example
of a very old root.
[ Music ]
[Background Music] As Ginseng
ages the so called death domain,
a region of the DNA structure
of the cell turns off.
At that time Ginseng can
become almost immortal.
Shennong the father of
Chinese Herbalism was the first
to describe wild Ginseng
more than 2,500 years ago.
He described it as an herb
capable of extending life.
Shou Lao the God of Longevity
in Chinese mythology is
often seen holding a Ginseng
as a symbol of longevity, Chi
building and internal power.
This is the Ginseng baby
as he stands in front
of the largest herb
market in China.
Ginseng roots become more
valuable as they become older.
The head on these Ginseng roots
is often very long indicating
the age.
These are some of the
Ginseng roots that are
in the current batch
of Heaven Drops.
[ Music ]
[Background Music] The Ginseng
roots may look different,
but in fact, there are just two
species that are commonly used
and that we're using
in Heaven Drops.
There is American Ginseng
and Chinese Ginseng.
They look extremely similar
since they are very,
very similar.
The distinguishing
characteristic
of wild Ginseng are
the striations
on the root itself
and the long head.
This is a featured Ginseng root
in our current batch
of Heaven Drops.
[ Music ]
[Background Music] Heaven Drops
Wild Ginseng from Dragon Herbs.
[ Music ]
[Background Music]
Private Reserve.
[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: So Ginseng is one
of the more well-known
herbs in America right?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
It's -- Ginseng is the biggest
selling herb in the world.
It sells everywhere and American
-- most American's know it
but they don't know
much about it.
It's -- I feel like it's
one of my missions in life
to try to explain Ginseng.
Ginseng -- real Ginseng comes
from only certain places.
It's -- there's a principle
in Chinese herbal
thoughts we call De Dao
which the Dao everybody
knows is sort
of "the way" and
De means "earth".
And De Dao means getting things
from an authentic location
like there's -- like every herb,
the best herb comes
from a certain place.
>> Lisa Garr: You seem
very committed to that.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah, we're
a De Dao company but we're
like the Shaolin Temple.
When I went and was talking to
the head master there and said,
"We're a De Dao company."
He goes, "Oh, we're a
De Dao company too."
And he's at the Shaolin
Temple, you know,
so because De Dao means
you're getting things
from the right place.
It -- you can grow
things other places.
I grow all these herbs in my
backyard but I don't take them.
I get them from the De Dao --
you know, I grow them as
my companions, you know.
But -- Ginseng, great
Ginseng, Chinese Ginseng comes
from Chung Bi Mountain.
It's a volcano in Manchuria
that's an amazing place
for herbs.
It actually continues
-- it has a lake with --
there water is very,
very mineral
and it's a certain composition
coming from the center
of the earth and that flows down
in rivers into off the mountain.
So the entire side
of the mountain has
got this unique once
in the world chemistry of
the minerals that are coming
out form the center
of the earth...
>> Lisa Garr: Interesting.
We have a picture of it here.
Take a look at it.
>> Ron Teeguarden: That's it.
That's what it looks like.
It's very salty.
You can't swim in it or anything
like that and it's flowing
down in big rivers down into
huge waterfalls and rivers.
And that's where -- so
Ginseng evolved there.
So did Reishi mushroom
in the first place.
Ginseng is as a plant
that's 65 million year old.
It's one of the oldest
plants that we still get.
It -- so it's very ancient.
It has adapted to a multitude
of environments right.
65 million years; it's
survived for that long.
So you think it's got some
kind of power to adapt.
And that power to adapt is
built into its chemistry.
Every time it's like
challenged by the weather,
or by a nematode, or
a bug, or anything,
it produces chemicals
called saponins or genocides
that make it stronger so
it can handle the stress.
And when we consume that Ginseng
then we get those chemicals
and we become more adaptive.
That's where Ginseng, so
great Ginseng makes you able
to handle much more
stress, much more difficulty
in your life easily and
actually overcome it.
>> Lisa Garr: That's what
an adaptogenic herb is.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Right.
That's -- so adaptogenic
herbs are herbs
that have a certain kind of
chemistry that help you adapt
to -- like, if it becomes
hot or cold, or like some
of the adapt -- like
this herb that comes
from Tibet called
Rhodiola, and every night
and day the temperature changes
about 60 degrees
from night to day.
And that plant which is growing
above the snowline has to adapt
to that kind of -- how would
we do if we were naked standing
up there trying to change
60 degrees in one day.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
But it can do it.
So when we consume that
it's got a certain chemistry
that it helps us to
actually adapt to --
and many of the greatest
tonic herbs and adaptogenics.
Most of them are.
All -- a matter of
fact the majority
of the tonic herbs
are the adaptogenic.
>> Lisa Garr: So they
help your body to adapt
to various environments in
your life, in your world.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Right and
to the stress of the office,
or to the stress of traffic.
We're like -- evolving new
stressed but the body handles it
in the same kind of way
by keeping your hormones
in balance, by keeping your
nervous system in balance
and that's what happens when
you take adaptogenic herbs.
It's an amazing...
>> Lisa Garr: Fascinating.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
...natural thing.
>> Lisa Garr: So now what we
saw in the Ginseng video was
about the rings in the Ginseng.
And is it the more -- the older
ones are those considered more
valuable potency?
Is that why?
>> Ron Teeguarden:
Well Ginseng is --
Ginseng, the best
Ginseng is wild.
And it's a protected
species so it's, you know,
it's limited so it's rare.
And so wild Ginseng will live --
when it becomes about
15-years-old it's the --
what they call the death
domain of its genetics,
the region of genes
that make something age
and suddenly die; it turns off.
And so at that point Ginseng
becomes almost immortal.
Ginseng roots will live almost
200 or 300 hundred years old.
>> Lisa Garr: My goodness.
>> Ron Teeguarden: You know,
years until they're eaten
by a deer, you know, a human
find it or something like that.
They'll continue to live.
They just stop dying.
So that chemistry
is what we want.
We want the oldest roots.
Like one of the Ginseng roots
in that video sold
for I think $400,000.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh my.
>> Ron Teeguarden: I think
it was 250-years-old.
It sold for $400,000
in Hong Kong.
And this is a wild Ginseng root.
More or less you
would call it typical
but it's really quite a
rare thing in the world.
It has the...
>> Lisa Garr: Rings.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...the rings.
Each ring is kind
of like a mark of,
you know, growth and fighting.
And a good Ginseng will
have little marks on it
where things were nibbling
at it like down here.
That stimulated its
chemistry you see.
And then the head, this
part here, the head;
each one of those notches
represents a year of life.
So this Ginseng root
is about 30-years-old.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh my goodness.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
So this is a great --
it's lived for 30 years in
Manchurian Mountains on its own
until somebody found it.
Okay now...
>> Lisa Garr: And then
at the top as it comes
out of the earth
is that red flower.
Right?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Every, every
season out of the notch a new --
the stem will come
up and produce leaves
and then the little flo- --
the seeds and so
forth and the flower.
And that of course
is -- they hide.
Ginseng is a hiding plant.
That's one of its
techniques for surviving.
It's got many -- I could tell
you many of the different --
it's got tricks up its
sleeve like are unbelievable
but one thing it does is
it hides under other plants
and when animals come around it
hides around plants that tend
to move and cover it up so it's
very hard to find wild Ginseng.
It's almost...
>> Lisa Garr: It's survival of
the fittest [laughter] Ginseng.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It's 65
million years of survival.
Now this is cultivated
Ginseng and this is also
from Chung Bi Mountain.
It's cultivated naturally,
it's organically grown
in the mountains.
This is about 8-years-old but
it doesn't have those rings.
>> Lisa Garr: I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Even
though they don't do anything,
the farmers just sit there.
They just make sure bears and
deer don't come into the farm.
But even that just
because they're sort of --
they put them under sort of
little tents because they need
to have that hiding feeling.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
Oh I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
But this is --
the rings are much less distinct
and the head doesn't grow long
like that but if you actually
took the seeds form this
and threw that in the
forest it would revert back
to this look the next
generation down the road.
>> Lisa Garr: And I saw the
beautiful pictures of some
of those roots were --
that looked exactly like
a male or a female's body.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah,
well that's what they --
you know, they're called "man
root" and a lot of them look
like -- I mean you,
you can get obsessed.
I could have brought one for you
-- from it that you look at it
and go that's like -- I've
had it for about 30 years.
It's sort of like
my pet Ginseng root.
It's got the nose and two
eyes and a little mouth,
[laughter] and, you know,
got a hat on and, you know --
never mind it's a [laughter] --
you know, you collect
those things and...
>> Lisa Garr: That's great.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...they
come in different shapes
and people do buy them
because they look like people.
But the main thing is the --
really the amazingness
of the good chemistry.
Now I -- what I wanted
to point out to people is
that when you get cheap Ginseng,
the kind that you
might get at a...
>> Lisa Garr: Supermarket
or something.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah
something like that.
That Ginseng is only
four-years-old typically
and the chemistry
hasn't fully developed.
A matter of fact it's developed
in a lopsided way that's more
stimulating and you do get kind
of -- but it makes
you stressed out.
So it has -- that --
there's a bad rap on Ginseng
for raising blood pressure
and making people hyper.
That's from that cheap Ginseng.
Once Ginseng is eight
years old, then all of --
both sides of the chemistry,
the sympathetic side
and the para-sympathetic
chemicals, have fully developed
and from then on it's a very
exquisitely balanced thing.
So for example I never
sell anything less
than eight-years-old.
That would be my --
against my principles.
So, you know.
>> Lisa Garr: So that --
it is calming for the nervous
system as well as focusing.
Right?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah Ginseng
is actually -- you take it --
if you take wild Ginseng
root you become very calm.
Like some people
think oh I'm going
to take this wild Ginseng root
and I'm going to get all hyper
and they fall asleep
for two days [laughter]
because their body
says you need rest.
But when they wake up they feel
like they're alive, you know.
They feel the -- that
rush of just life force
that took a couple
days to build up.
>> Lisa Garr: That's another
of those adaptogenic features.
Right?
>> Ron Teeguarden:
Yes, that's right.
>> Lisa Garr: Now this next
picture is you standing
at the base of this
mountain and it's --
is it best to harvest
the Ginseng in the winter
or is there a season
for harvesting?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well actually
you harvest Ginseng in the fall,
or late summer and fall and this
picture was actually not winter
it's just taken at
Chun Bi Mountain.
But Chun Bi Mountain, Chun Bi
means "ever white" mountain
and so it tends to
stay a snowline,
snowy at the top
of the mountain.
So this was actually just
mid-September but it snowed
that day pretty heavily.
Even though it was
-- when we went back
down into China it
was like a heat wave.
You know, 90 degrees.
So yeah especially, -- you
can't really find Ginseng
in the winter because
the top dies off
and it's all hidden in the snow.
This is Manchuria.
But this is one of the most
beautiful, amazing -- it's a --
it's, you know, a special place.
>> Lisa Garr: Its waterfalls
and beautiful things there.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It's got
one of the biggest waterfalls
in the world and it's an active
volcano so the, the water --
it, it comes from the
center of the earth
and it's filled with minerals.
The water's too mineral to drink
but it flows down in huge rivers
down into the mountain
and saturates the earth
and that's why Chun Bi Mountain
grows herbs no place else
in the world grows.
That's why Reishi and
Ginseng come from there.
>> Lisa Garr: That's
[inaudible].
>> Ron Teeguarden: Unfortunately
I think right now it's showing
signs of about to erupt
which could put a
damper on Ginseng for...
>> Lisa Garr: A little while.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...few years.
Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: [Laughter] Yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: But it's,
it's definitely showing
some signs.
The geologists are going --
it's active, it's alive so once
every 100 years or so it...
>> Lisa Garr: It does.
It needs to release
that pressure.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: So
tell us a little bit
about the principles
behind Chinese medicine
and why these particular
herbs are so powerful for us.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well
these herbs have been studied
since before humans
became civilized
and before their was
actually writing.
So about 3,000 years ago there
-- the body of knowledge started
to become consolidated about
herbs which is quite miraculous.
You know, when you think of
probably it took 100,000 years
of pre-humans and human
eating little pieces
of bark, eating berries.
Sometimes they would die,
sometimes they would get sick.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Ron Teeguarden: They learned
how to smell them and basically
over so many thousands and
thousands of years a body
of oral tradition developed
and about 2,500 years ago a
great wise man named Shennong
wrote the first herbal
pharmacopeia in the history
of the world and it
was quite complete
and he described 360 herbs.
He divided them into
three categories.
The main category, the top
was called superior herbs.
That the tonic herbs.
And these are herbs you would
take to promote your wellbeing.
You would take them to
live long, to feel light,
to not get sick,
to, to become --
to aid in your path
to enlightenment.
They weren't, they weren't magic
mushrooms but they were things
that gave you the power.
So these were called
the superior herbs.
He also described a set of
herbs called the general herbs
which were preventative, or
nipped things in the bud.
Like you would take
them for allergies,
or for menopausal symptoms.
For -- if you're
dealing with problems
when you're getting
them on and off.
>> Lisa Garr: Symptoms.
Okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden: And they're
safer than medicinal things
but they're not quite tonic.
But so you don't take
them all the time.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden: The
tonics you can take every day
of your life to live long.
>> Lisa Garr: And you
should [laughter].
>> Ron Teeguarden:
Yeah and you should.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: And the third
category he divided the herbs
into was the -- what he
called the inferior herbs
and these are medicines.
These are herbs that treated
conditions like measles
or headaches, you know...
>> Lisa Garr: Gout.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Everything.
Everything medicinal.
And but he called him
the inferior herbs
because it meant
you were waiting
until after you were
sick to take them.
So that's actually
primal to our concept
and to Chinese concept
of, of, of promoting,
promoting radiant health.
Like becoming healthy is
your, is your first job
and then maintaining your health
so you can cultivate your life
and do great things, that's --
you needed tonic herbs as part
of your support system just
like we need yoga and meditation
and a good healthy lifestyle.
You know.
>> Lisa Garr: Balance.
>> Ron Teeguarden: A good diet.
You can't become a
great enlightened person
if you're eating junk and you're
-- and you abuse your body.
>> Lisa Garr: But can you,
but can you if you're
eating healthy foods,
if you're eating the raw green
lifestyle or healthy foods?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well
you can but do you notice
that everybody that's who's --
there's a vast number
of those people
who are now getting more
advance and are going,
well tonic herbs are actually
another kick above, you know,
above and beyond included in
the system of a healthy diet.
>> Lisa Garr: I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Really
the tonic herbs are,
are another food group.
They're healthy -- they're as
healthy as carrots and peas
and lettuce, maybe healthier
than those things, and --
in terms of being --
not having side effects.
Yet they're just very rare
and you see they're made
out of things that
are very tough.
Like you can't eat
a Reishi mushroom.
It's too woody.
You have to, you have
to cook it into a tea
or abstract it in some way.
It's the same with this
piece of cinnamon or...
>> Lisa Garr: That's
a piece of cinnamon?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Wow.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah
that's a piece of cinnamon.
>> Lisa Garr: That is beautiful.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
That's real cinnamon.
What we get in the market now is
for when people put
in their [inaudible].
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah
little sticks.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
It's not the real deal.
Okay? This is actually
a real cinnamon.
>> Lisa Garr: I have
not seen one this big.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
This is actually how cinnamon
really looks [laughter]
in the real world.
Very strong.
That's a tonic herb.
Builds your -- the fire of
life and goes to your abdomen,
makes you live longer
and live more powerfully.
But, you know, the tonic herbs
are something you can't get
from your food.
You -- I mean you -- I -- you
have to have a great diet.
You have to focus on eating
for vibrancy and freshness
and all the different
colors and we have to --
but tonic herbs are
like a food group
that you just aren't getting.
You can't get the chemistry
of a Reishi mushroom from...
>> Lisa Garr: From food.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
...from your garden.
You can't.
Or of a Ginseng root.
>> Lisa Garr: All those --
that diet is a great
base for [inaudible].
>> Ron Teeguarden: You
have to have a great diet.
You know if you take
your tonic herbs
and you eat only junky food then
you're still going to die young
and you're not going to
get very intelligent.
The fat's going to
go to your brain.
But...
>> Lisa Garr: And
toxins [inaudible].
>> Ron Teeguarden:
Yeah, but if you --
this is part of a
healthy program.
It's like its -- if its
tonic herbs you do it daily.
I -- it's critical, American's
start to grow up herbally.
It's -- this is my
lifespans mission is
that in Asian they have
this ancient concept
of superior herbalism
and inferior herbalism
or inferior diet and
superior diet too.
Where you can take
certain things
that promote your life force
so you develop certain
energy centers,
the nerve in your spine.
Everybody's doing yoga.
You know? It's not
just a stretch.
It's to open up the
energy centers and,
and expand your consciousness
and become at peace,
but also powerful and
the tonic herbs are
that from Mother Earth.
That's where they --
that's what they are.
>> Lisa Garr: So now in the --
in the Chinese medicine system
I heard about the five elements
or elemental system
of Chinese medicine.
How do the herbs support that
system of Chinese medicine?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well
fundamentally before
that there's Yin and Yong.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
There is Yin and Yong.
Everything in the universe
has got hot and cold,
up and down, you and me.
>> Lisa Garr: Balance.
>> Ron Teeguarden: You know,
it's about balance and that --
Yin and Yong is like, is
a cycle, is a description
of cyclable, the cyclable
nature of the universe.
Everything in nature
grows and shrinks.
And like for example --
and, and sometimes right
at this moment I'm being --
you and I are in a
Yin Yong relationship
where I'm being Yong because
I'm talking and you're receiving
in -- but as you store that
and then you come back to me
and then you become
Yong and I become Yin.
>> Lisa Garr: I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden: And
that relationship is --
we see it every place in nature.
And the -- that, so
once you understand Yin
and Yong you can sort of
get balance into your life.
It's -- it takes a while.
At first it seems arcane
but after a while it just
becomes this is what life is.
There's nothing that isn't
about cycles and rhythm.
Nothing. Your heartbeats, then
it relaxes, then it beats.
You breathe in...
>> Lisa Garr: Interesting, yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...relax.
You know, you have
-- you get high
on a person then you pull back.
But, you know, and if it's
a relationship you have
to keep that pulse going.
>> Lisa Garr: That balance.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh yeah, yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Okay
so the five elements is
really just a refinement.
It's a refinement
of Yin and Yong.
It's like there's
four elements --
and the general factor like
one of where Yin starts
and then Yin becomes full.
If Yin starts in winter --
or in the fall that's when
the energy's coming in
and then it develops fully into
winter and then spring starts
and Yong starts to rise and then
it becomes full in summer time
and then it goes to
fall and that's a cycle.
So that's four of the
elements that -- for the --
that's fire, metal,
water, and wood elements.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Lisa Garr: We
have a chart here.
No, no, no, we have a chart here
that you could just -- yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Okay.
And then -- but then the concept
of the fifth element
is called earth
and that represents the balance
of them all, the centeredness,
the anchor that keeps them
all unified into one thing.
So basically that was a concept
and then they're associated
with the organs and the
seasons as I just mentioned.
The elements are
associated with seasons
but also with food and herbs.
So some herbs nurture your wood
elements and nurture your fire.
Like the cinnamon I mentioned
it's hot, it's cinnamon.
This is much, much hotter
than the cheap cinnamon we
usually get for mulled cider.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Okay?
So when you consume a little
of this cooked into a tea
or as a powder in a, in a
concoction it's going to go in
and promote the fire
element in a good way.
It's actually going
to go to your belly
and stimulate your life force...
>> Lisa Garr: Metabolism.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
Yeah, metabolism
and your sexual energy
and your creativity.
All the things that are
associated with more
of a power, expansive power.
>> Lisa Garr: That's
so interesting.
The shaker jar of
cinnamon you get
at the market is [laughter]
doesn't do as much.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well it's
going to have a little bit
but it's, you know, they're
commercially growing it
for flavor.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It's not
the most powerful cinnamon
in the world, but
it's still cinnamon.
You know.
>> Lisa Garr: So these types of
herbs and how they're related
to the Yin and Yong of the
body and the Yin and Yong
of the seasons is the concept
behind Chinese medicine,
basically.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
Except that with the tonic
herbs beautifully most
of them are what they
call double direction
and they tend to stimulate both.
That -- the tonic herbs you
can take on a daily basis
because they're not
so cold, not so hot.
They just tend to help regulate.
Many of the medicinal herbs
are very cold or very hot.
So you take them for --
if you have a fever you take a
very cold herb -- or, you know.
If you got the chills
and you're --
you have not circulation
you would take a hot herb
and it depends on
your condition.
With the tonics when you get
a good blend it's actually
nourishing the whole cycle
of the five elements, the Yin
and Yong and, and keeps it going
in a -- really it becomes a --
you could almost be ignorant of
how it works and still take them
and they're still doing
right for your body.
Rather the medicinal
herbs I would never...
>> Lisa Garr: [Inaudible] more.
>> Ron Teeguarden: You can't --
you have to go to a Chinese
doctor to tell you what
to take because it's risky.
>> Lisa Garr: So in the season
that stay more Yong it's
better to take more...
>> Ron Teeguarden:
You take Yin herbs.
>> Lisa Garr: ...Yin herbs.
Okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Right.
And during -- right.
So I got an example is an
herb like this, is Gynostemma.
We can talk more about it later
but this was from my garden.
I plucked it this morning
just to kind of show it.
Gynostemma is like Ginseng
because it contains the
same chemistry as Ginseng,
maybe even in some ways better.
This contains genocides just
like Ginseng except
it's a cooler --
it's cool so it helps
your body to stay cooler.
Now that's critical in
the big picture of things
because as we get older
the body naturally tends
to become inflamed.
Not, not like arthritis, those
kind of inflammatory diseases
but just generally what
you call inflammaging.
Aging due to inflammation.
Like this is just what happens
to us until when we're very old,
we're very inflamed and then
we pass away because we're so.
So this is, this herb is --
comes from the region that
has the oldest living people
in the world.
It has more octogenarians
and centenarians per capita
than any place in the world
and this is their daily tea.
It's consumed as a
tea and you drink it
and it prevents this
inflammaging from occurring
because it's cooling, cooling.
>> Lisa Garr: Interesting.
>> Ron Teeguarden: You
see on a long-term basis.
>> Lisa Garr: I see yeah so...
>> Ron Teeguarden: You can also
drink it in the summer just
to cool down like mint.
But it's -- there's stronger
things for the immediate.
This is a long-term,
longevity cool.
>> Lisa Garr: Base.
Yeah, right.
And as, as we've learned
you can take a tea like that
and then add the Chaga mushroom,
or you can add the Reishi
mushroom powders into it.
So now how do you boil these
down into a tincture
form or into a tea?
Or is there a process
that you use in order
to get the powder
from the Reishi.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well
in traditional times obviously
people would find this
and then they would take it home
and they would put
it in a big pot.
You know, a clay pot or
an iron pot or something
and they would cook it for two
or three hours and drink it.
But it would spoil.
They didn't have a refrigerator
and they would have to --
so maybe they would soak it
in alcohol or, you know --
so it would last longer.
Thinner Reishi mushroom in
the forest or you were able
to buy a [inaudible] or Ginseng.
You know, those kind of things
you would try to preserve it
in some way but basically we've
evolved into an amazing era
as we know from everything
else in this world now is
like the technology has
made it possible to --
which was only invented in the
1960's to extract these things.
It's within our lifetime and
at least my lifetime that...
>> Lisa Garr: Oh my goodness.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...they've
learned how to extract herbs
in the way they do now.
You, you can take these herbs.
You can create the combination.
You put the herbs into
a tank that maybe is --
hold a half a ton of herbs,
or a ton, or three tons.
Whatever the size of your --
and then it cooks it for --
at a certain temperature
depending on the technology.
The better the technology
the lower the temperature
but it cooks it under
pressure and then at the end
of that time you have
a soup and then they,
they can what they
call spray dry it.
They put it into another
tank that sprays up and it --
and the water evaporates
and the powder comes out.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh my goodness.
>> Ron Teeguarden: That's what
we get and the simple things
that you can do for example I
make about 300 herbal products
and all of them are what they
call pure yield which means,
we just -- they come
out exactly the herb.
We don't mix in starch.
You know like 50% starch is kind
of standard but we
don't do that.
>> Lisa Garr: Interesting.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Or
cellulose or something.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden: But basically
when you're spray drying
it the powder can come out
and then you can just --
you [inaudible] sterile
situation you can put it
into drums and eventually
we put it into capsules.
And, and it's actually better
than actually cooking your own.
I know it's super fun to take,
you know, something like this
and put it in a pot and
cook it but you know you can
over cook it, you
can undercook it,
you can forget to turn it off.
You know, there's all kinds
of things that could happen.
But this all under control.
We know how to extract it,
and it's just pure powder but,
you know, and you can get
the best herbs in the world
or you can get cheap herbs.
It depends on what you do.
But what you could --
obviously you can't make gold
out of straw.
So what goes into the
pot that's what I do.
I pick the herbs.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah, so it's
very scientifically measured
and based.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Right
and that technology has come
to the point where it's
rocket science at this point.
It's all computerized and done
under the most amazing
conditions.
>> Lisa Garr: Extreme
circumstances.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
When I first got into
the business just
to show once again
how old I am I guess
because [inaudible]
[laughter] they used to,
they actually used to...
>> Lisa Garr: Sit it yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Stir it.
Make parts of it by stirring.
I actually got to
do that myself.
>> Lisa Garr: We'll
get a chance to see
that a little bit later but...
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah but
nowadays I couldn't do that.
They wouldn't even
let me in the room.
You know, it's like
you have to put the --
you have to put a
hazmat outfit on to go
into these rooms [laughter].
They're -- it's so advanced and
but the more advanced it is
the more natural the produce is
actually coming.
It used to be when you cook it
under a stove you're
actually boiling off half
of the essential oils.
Now it's done under
these conditions
where it's all natural.
The solvents are natural.
There's -- you capture
all of the essential oils
and do what they call oil
traps in the crystalizing
and you can put it back in.
So you're losing nothing.
Matter of fact you're gaining.
It's got to the point of -- and
I know about herbs and if I --
if somebody said, "Would you
rather take these extracts
or the real thing?
If you had one choice
for your whole life."
I would probably go
with the extracts now
because they're just overall...
>> Lisa Garr: Interesting
broken down [inaudible].
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: So back to
the Chinese medicine system.
So we talked about how
these different types
of herbs create balance in the
body and create balance in --
according to the
different times of year.
So is there something specific
that you could take say
to warm yourself
up in the winter?
You mentioned cooling.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah,
people take the Chinese
Ginseng during the wintertime.
You can also take all these
Reishi which is neutral.
Most of the tonic --
the Cistanche over there
is what they call warm.
It's got a -- this -- just
like there's five elements
there's five levels.
There's hot and warm,
neutral, cool, and cold.
So you can think like that.
I live in California so I just
go for some warm, some cool,
a lot in the middle and
its major tonic herbs.
But some people will find
that in the wintertime just
like you would eat winter
squashes in the winter
and you'd eat summer squashes in
the summer they cool you down.
So that takes a little
bit more knowledge.
The ideal -- the point is, is
that's actually the easy part.
The, the real part is
the three treasures
which I think is
the next part of...
>> Lisa Garr: What I
want to learn about.
So we actually have this
wonderful picture of a drawing
and can you explain
his a little bit?
This is a...
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well this is
just an old picture that I have.
I think I got this from
the Shaolin Temple.
And it, it's just showing
the five elements how
that works in the body.
>> Lisa Garr: The body.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
It's an old thing.
They had an old concept
of the organs being
associated with the elements.
So you see the four elements
I mentioned representing the
seasons plus the one in the
middle being earth that,
that holds it all together.
Earth in Chinese
philosophy means balance.
It's the centering part.
No matter how far you go
to one extreme you're
going to get pulled back.
So and then down at the bottom
there's this little cauldron,
a brass cauldron and that's
called the "golden stove"
and that -- if you get that
to be strong you're going
to live long.
That's Daois- --
that's why the people --
you know the old thing of
meditating into your belly.
And why cinnamon goes to your --
real cinnamon, not cheap
cinnamon, but real cinnamon
if you consume it, it actually
goes and makes that fire
in your belly that makes
the whole five elements.
That's why it's a
longevity remedy.
>> Lisa Garr: Is that
what the triple warmer is?
>> Ron Teeguarden:
That's the triple,
that's what the triple
warm -- that's another --
the triple warmer
represents the three levels
of the body and how it works.
It's a little complicated but.
>> Lisa Garr: I hear
about it all the time.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah, it's --
the triple warmer represents you
-- the consumption of energy,
the assimilation of the energy,
then the elimination of waste.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
And the utilization
of energy throughout the body
and that's just the
steps it goes
through is the upper
burner, the middle burner
and the lower burner
and that is kind of how
that chart was -- yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: And so now you
mentioned the three treasures,
the three basic concepts.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah this
is the most important thing
and like Yin and Yong the
three treasures is fundamental
to how we live.
We -- as a human being we all
have three main types of energy.
The -- they're called
Jing, Qi, and Chen
and everybody's heard of Chi.
It's like you know,
everybody's Chi,
you know Bruce Lee has
Qi when he does this.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Ron Teeguarden: You
know, that kind of thing.
A plant has Qi when it grows.
But that's sort of sometimes
encompassing the really all
three treasures.
The first treasure is Jing.
Jing is our life force.
That's what we -- you and I
inherited from our parents.
It's the genetics
of our life force.
So it determines how
long we're going to live
and the power of our life.
So somebody who's got
strong Jing is going to live
to be a 100-years-old or more
and they're going to have --
be very powerful and creative
and they'll be productive.
And but if you're -- but we
use up our Jing every day
of our life just living and if
you're under a lot of stress,
or we burn ourselves out,
then we burn up Jing rapidly
and it's like our battery.
So we need to recharge it
and I, I promise you 99.9%
of Americans don't know
how to recharge their...
>> Lisa Garr: Recharge.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...Ging.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Ron Teeguarden: And that's
what the tonic herbs do.
The Yong tonics like the
Cistanche or some kinds
of Ginseng or the Goji
berries which is the greatest
of the rechargers; that's
why Goji's are so famous.
You take them they recharge
Jing and that's our life force.
That your basic power.
And when you're, you're
exhausted it makes you run
out of Jing and that's
when you get the dark rings
under your eyes and, you
know, chronic fatigue types
of conditions and so forth.
The second treasure is Chi.
That's what we get
from breathing
and from eating our
food and digesting.
And they -- the energy from
the breath and the energy
from out food combine to give
us the energy that we use --
I'm using to move my arms
and move my -- and to live.
And that's day to day.
Jing was ancient and
it's passing through us.
And we pass it onto our children
through our reproductive system.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh interesting.
>> Ron Teeguarden: But Qi is
day-to-day, moment to moment.
So we can't live
without Qi for very long.
We can't -- you can't
stop breathing or you die
and the same way with eating.
Okay. Then a third -- and
the Qi also controls your
immune system.
It's protection.
It give you -- so if you have
a lot of Qi you're protected.
And so that's, so you really
need Jing for your power
and Qi to protect you.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Okay.
And the third treasure is Shen.
Shen is your spirit.
It's your mind and
your spiritual powers.
It's sort of -- I, I --
my personal approach is that
it's the divinity, it's the God
that lives, resides within
our heart and we express
but people can see
it anyway that want
but it is the same thing no
matter how you express it or --
since it is our divinity.
And so ultimately there
is an analogy in Daoism
that used candles as
the perfect analogy
and that's what we're looking at
there where the wax and the wick
of the candle that's Jing,
that's what you come with.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
That's what burns down
and you get a certain amount.
And then the flame, the actually
burning of it that's Chi.
And then the light
given off that's Shen.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh, oh wonderful.
>> Ron Teeguarden: And so
if you have a big candle then
you can have a big flame that's
also hard to blow out.
You know, if you have a
birthday candle body, you know,
in terms of Jing then the
slightest wind will blow
you out.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh, interesting.
>> Ron Teeguarden: And
that's where I was when I was
in college was I
had used up my Jing.
And so everything
was knocking me off.
And then when I met Master
Park he goes, "We're just going
to build -- spend a 100 days
and build your Jing
and protect you."
And so for the first
100 days I was
with him he just built my Jing.
And then all my symptoms which
I had a whole laundry list of,
things that you would not
think were treatable like that.
Like joint pains and
headaches and all kinds
of problems, you know.
They just -- it all went away
because my Jing came back.
It's like a...
>> Lisa Garr: You
restored your Jing.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: That's wonderful.
I love the picture
of the candle.
That makes perfect sense.
Now Chinese medicine teaches
a lot through these types
of analogies and through
their beautiful artwork.
We have a picture that you
gave us of the Goddess Magu?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Magu.
Yeah, yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: And
what does this show?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well this
is an old painting that --
and it's Magu, she's just --
Magu was the Goddess
of Youth and Beauty.
She supposedly by legend --
when she was 18 she became
enlightened for some reason.
She got -- met Daoists who --
she just was one of those
early bloomers in terms of --
and so she became an immortal.
She was not -- she never aged.
She always stayed eternally 18.
So she's still to this day is
like on everybody's birthday
cards in China for women.
You know never aging.
And so but her mission
in life then was
to turn people onto
the tonic herbs.
So this is a painting of her
actually with a Reishi mushroom,
and some Schisandra, and then
a magical longevity peace
but that's -- the red thing's
over is Schisandra berries
and the [inaudible].
And she's giving it to these
you know potential adepts
to learn how to live to be
an immortal and that's...
>> Lisa Garr: Wow, wonderful.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Only problem
with this one was she's so,
you know, cute because she
was 18 and perfect that one
of the guys, he's losing
control of himself.
He's blushing, you know.
He's like going uh, which
is kind of ruining --
that's what the painting
is about.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh okay.
>> Ron Teeguarden: She's trying
to serve him the Reishi
mushrooms and he's going wow.
>> Lisa Garr: He's
blushing [laughter].
>> Ron Teeguarden: You know?
>> Lisa Garr: And this other
one, this other picture
that you shared with us
is, is the -- what is this?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well this
is [foreign word] he's the God
of Healing.
>> Lisa Garr: God of Healing.
>> Ron Teeguarden: And he has in
his hand the pill of immorality
which is like a -- what
they call these days --
they call them a super pill.
Which means that it's got
the combination of all
of the major great
anti-aging, longevity,
enlightening herbs in one pill.
And you can just see the,
the joy in his face
as he sees this pill.
Also he's got a gourd
hanging from his back
which has the liquid
version of this
which he drank on a daily basis.
>> Lisa Garr: [Inaudible]
the tonic.
>> Ron Teeguarden: So he
would have the tonic --
well the tonic is a
type of herbalism.
But there can be a liquid
or there can be a pill form.
So he's actually carrying
two different kinds here.
He's -- but right at
the moment he's...
>> Lisa Garr: Interesting.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...has
this magical pill [inaudible].
>> Lisa Garr: And
now we have you
in a picture here in
the Reishi fields.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah,
that's a Reishi tent in the --
at the base of Chung
Bi Mountain.
It's where we get
our wild Reishi.
Many of the kinds of wild
Reishi but this one is --
this is a pretty old picture.
They've become more
organized than this.
But this was a beautiful...
>> Lisa Garr: Wonderful.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
...tent back in the 1990's
at some point I think.
And I just -- this was -- this
is in Chun Bi Mountain and we're
in -- I'm in a Ras- -- that's
how they grow -- now these --
they're not growing
in the ground.
They're growing on logs that
were cut down from the forest
and they're actually
-- so all they do is...
>> Lisa Garr: I see.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...it's
actually just fresh air, water.
They said it's against the
law to give it any kind
of chemicals or fertilizers.
They don't need anything.
They can't spray
it with fungicides.
It's just naturally grown.
This is one of the Reishi's.
>> Lisa Garr: And that is
one of the ones that grown
which looks very similar to
the one here on our table.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
This is true.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Ron Teeguarden: This was...
>> Lisa Garr: Now is this
preserved in some certain way?
Does it have a...
>> Ron Teeguarden: No.
They produ- -- when they get
to maturity they become glossy.
So they're called glossy
Ganoderma or Ganoderma Lucida.
Lucid like shiny.
They...
>> Lisa Garr: Interesting.
>> Ron Teeguarden: So all this
beautiful sheen just means
that it's actually achieved
a certain state of maturity.
>> Lisa Garr: Right, wow.
Wonderful.
So these are all things that
you've boiled down or created
in terms of your work
at Dragon Herbs right?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah, yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: And you have
emporiums which are beautiful.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Thank you.
>> Lisa Garr: We have a
picture of one of the emporiums
that you -- what is that?
That is gorgeous.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well
that's our exlire bar.
You come in there and when
you're in Los Angeles --
this is the one on Robertson
and you get to order a drink,
and all those different
drink wells
in the background they're
called tonic wells.
We have different extracts.
Those are my babies.
Every one of them has something
that I spent years
collecting the herb for.
They're extracted using
that special technology
that is cool -- they're raw but
they're completely extracted.
It's the only technology
in the world
that is completely raw too.
>> Lisa Garr: What
is that called again?
>> Ron Teeguarden: It's called
-- it's called FITT, F-I --
Fingerprint Identical Transfer
Technology and we sell them
to people in a form called
E Tea which is like this.
So they're -- E Tea stands
for easy, economical,
effective and ecological tea.
They're completely organic,
they're not -- they're --
there's no carbon footprint.
They're exactly the same
as if you ate the plant off
the vine or off the bush.
It's identical.
That's why...
>> Lisa Garr: And you
created this system?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well we,
we, we were lucky enough
that I actually helped some
people out who ended up --
the Chinese Academy of Sciences
and they invented the system
and so they've given me the
rights to it to America.
>> Lisa Garr: Wonderful.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It's one
of those coincidences...
>> Lisa Garr: Wonderful.
>> Ron Teeguarden: ...but
it's an amazing thing, yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Well thank you.
We're sharing some E Tea here.
What is this [laughter]?
>> Ron Teeguarden: This is
my Schisandra E Tea so...
>> Lisa Garr: And this
is for focus [laughter]?
>> Ron Teeguarden: That's right.
>> Lisa Garr: And
clarity [laughter].
>> Ron Teeguarden: That's --
it's one of the herbs that Magu
was serving to those men for --
to live long and
become enlightened.
So...
>> Lisa Garr: And
prosper [laughter].
>> Ron Teeguarden:
Yeah [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Well
thank you so much.
You have to drink in order
to -- after you toast right?
>> Ron Teeguarden: Yeah.
Thank you very much
for having me.
>> Lisa Garr: Wonderful.
Thank you so much.
You are a wealth of knowledge.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Thank you.
>> Lisa Garr: And your
herbs and your knowledge
of the herbs is something
that I'm really grateful
that you're here
to share with us.
>> Ron Teeguarden:
It's my pleasure.
Thank you.
>> Lisa Garr: And your travels.
I can tell this is
your journey in life.
Thank you for sharing
it with us.
>> Ron Teeguarden: Thank you.
>> Lisa Garr: And thank
you so much for joining us.
If you would like to watch
a replay of my interview
with Ron Teeguarden or share it
with your friends,
go to GiaaimTV.com.
And until next time I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]
[ Silence ]